When we produce data to Kafka,
it's important to consider how that data is represented.
Up until now, we've just been publishing string data directly into Kafka.
Most applications will want to publish
a representation of an application object instance,
JSON data, or some other more formalized type of data.
This process of transforming an application's internal representation of
a data model to a data model suitable for
data stores or other applications is called serialization.
Whether you've called it serialization or not before,
you've almost certainly performed this process.
For example, maybe you transformed an array of objects in your application into a CSV.
Perhaps you've turned an internal object in your application into JSON,
and posted it to an HTTP API.
You may have saved an application's representation of an object to a SQL database.
All of these scenarios involve serializing
an applications data model into a state more suitable for another application.
Kafka itself does not handle the serialization process,
instead the Kafka Client Library helps facilitate the process.
In Python, this is pretty simple,
as we'll see in an upcoming demonstration.
The most common types of data serialization are binary data,
CSV data, JSON data, and Avro.
We're going to cover Apache Avro in detail in lesson 3.
Finally, never change the type of serialization and use without recreating a topic.
If you created a topic,
say "My first topic",
and you republishing string data into it,
and then a month or two later you decided you wanted to put
JSON or Avro data in there, you shouldn't do that.
You should create a new topic entirely with a different version.
If you do mix serialization formats in the same topic,
this is a guaranteed way to cause a production outage,
or at the worst cause,
a bunch of errors to happen and downstream consumers.
There's going to be no way for your consumers to
know that the serialization format has changed.